and T5.
The store has solutions for all your security needs.
It's open Monday through Saturday, 9am to 5pm.
More information available at tss707.com or 923-2363.
Support for Redwood Community Radio comes from the Blue Star Gas, located at Redwood
Drive at Alder Point Road.
Blue Star Gas provides propane sales and service throughout Southern Humboldt, Northern Mendocino
and Trinity Counties.
Locally owned and independent since 1938.
More information online at bluestargas.com.
Seven o'clock, stay tuned, Big Herb Doctor Show coming up.
We're getting it all set up here in the studio.
It's going to be great.
Support for KMUG comes from listeners like you and from Chautauqua Natural Foods.
Locally owned for over 25 years, they specialize in local and organic produce, natural groceries,
nutritional supplements and body care products.
Chautauqua Natural Foods is open Monday through Saturday, 9am to 7pm.
Sunday 10am to 5pm, just off the town square in Garberville.
More information online at facebook.com/chautauquanaturals.
And support for KMUG comes from the Humboldt County Department of Health and Human Services,
seeking foster families throughout the Humboldt County region.
Do you have space in your life to make room for a child?
Foster children in your community need homes and stipends are available.
You can get more information on becoming a foster family by calling 707-499-3410.
Alright, here we go, stay tuned, Herb Doctor coming up.
(upbeat music)
(gentle music)
- Well, very welcome to you all listening
to Ask Your Herb Doctor.
My name's Andrew Murray.
- My name's Sarah Johannison Murray.
- We both trained in England and graduated there
with a degree in herbal medicine
and clients consult with us regarding their health issues
and we recommend personalized advice in nutrition,
supplements, herbs, diet and lifestyle.
And we can be reached toll free 1-888-WBM-HERB
or on www.westernbotanicalmedicine.com.
So a little departure from the last few years
and definitely from Dr. Peat's altruistic
and giving all of his time and his energy
and his research.
I'm very excited to show you that tonight
we are hosting two filmmakers,
Brad Abrahams and Jeremy Stewart,
who are producing a documentary film
called "On the Back of a Tiger."
They've interviewed eight maverick scientists,
including Dr. Ray Peat,
who weave an alternate story of life
from the molecular level to consciousness and perception,
challenging the mainstream medical dogma
with scientific research,
illuminating radical new ways of understanding disease
and its treatment.
I welcome Brad and Jeremy to "Ask Your Herb Doctor."
Are you guys with us?
- Yes, we are. - Yes.
- Okay. - Great intro.
Sums it up nicely.
- Excellent.
Okay.
- Welcome Dr. Peat to the show.
- Yeah, hello.
- Oh, hi Dr. Peat.
- Seems like we have a threesome on the airwaves.
- Oh, great.
- Okay, so basically we've been very fortunate
to interview you, Dr. Peat, for a number of years now.
And you frequently mention names during your discourses,
and they're usually eminent scientists
and groundbreaking alternative researchers
whose view of mainstream medicine is alternative
to the dogma, if not controversial.
Most people view the doctor as an all-knowing entity,
but many doctors fail to read the research
that points to anything other than the dogma,
which is perpetuated by Big Pharma.
Up until the time that I just realized
that Dr. Peat was gonna be with us a couple of minutes ago,
I had written a small outline for Brad and Jeremy,
apparently who've been exhaustively traveling Europe
in the year 2014 to track down
these eight principal scientists
who they did manage to get one, two,
and three day interviews with, I think.
So I wanted to cover the timeline
with which you started interviewing these scientists,
starting with Dr. May Wan Ho, and give each of you,
I don't quite know how we're gonna work this
with both of you on the show.
I think one person will do one and the other will do another,
or you can both interject, and Dr. Ray, Peat, you too,
at the same time, you can all cut in.
I wanted to ask both of you two, though, Jeremy, first,
like I always have done with Dr. Peat,
if you would just give an outline
of your professional and academic backgrounds,
perhaps starting with you, Brad.
- Sure, well, my background and Jeremy's are quite similar,
so it could cover both of us.
We both went to film school originally,
and very soon after graduating,
entered the advertising and commercial production world
where we were trapped for many years,
pining away, trying to figure out a way
to work on projects that were more meaningful to us
and to other people, and you just can't do that
with a full-time job.
It takes up so much of your energy,
creatively and physically, that we ended up quitting,
still working freelance for funds,
but spending more and more of our time now
working on projects like these,
and we've focused specifically on this project now
for the last year or so.
- Have you had any background reasons
for pursuing this kind of health topic,
medical establishment approach to disease?
Is anything pertinent in either of you
that has kind of spurred this?
- Yeah, you can go ahead, Jeremy.
- We both, I think, are sort of sensitive,
fragile people in that way,
like as far as always being more aware
of what we eat and sensitive to the environment.
You know, some people are maybe more hypothyroid than others,
as Ray might say.
And so I think we both had similar interests.
That's how we became friends in the first place
while working together, seeing that reading about,
I think, on World's Healthiest Foods
was when we first had our first conversation
and realized that we had a lot in common.
But seeing health problems in friends and family
who couldn't find solutions,
I think that's always been a background
and having an interest in science.
- Yeah, it was originally for myself
just things like really bad digestion, allergies, fatigue,
and a lot of it, I think, came with overworking
and just the confines of the modern world.
But more recently, it's been seeing deteriorating health
of family and friends, and in particular,
my father, who's been, in the last couple years,
had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's.
And I was already skeptical of the establishment,
medical establishment, but just seeing the bad science
and really suspect motives, particularly with this disease,
really spurred a sense of urgency,
creating a project like this.
- Okay.
- And Jeremy and Brad, I was wondering,
how did you first find out about Dr. Peat?
Because I know you wanted this film,
and initially, you were thinking this film
was going to be focused solely on Dr. Ray Peat.
How did you first hear about Dr. Peat?
- Well, I was introduced to him by Brad.
- By Brad, you found him through Danny Roddy?
- Yeah, originally, Danny Roddy.
I had been on the roller coaster of diets
and in need of recovery and had found Danny's site
that had mentioned Dr. Peat and just found it
so fascinating, someone looking at health and nutrition,
starting at the molecular level
and actually really understanding that,
having such a solid grasp of the biochemistry.
It took a long time.
The work is dense and hard to understand
for someone without a scientific background.
So it took a long time.
It took actually a couple years of reading and listening
and talking with Jeremy and others
to really have a grasp on the unique view
and also self-experimentation with diet
and certain lifestyle things
that really ended up having quite a large impact,
I think, in both of our healths.
- Definitely, and it was a while.
We were aware of reading Ray's work
for quite a long time before we talked about
the idea of doing a documentary.
I think it coincided and somewhat inspired
doing something, getting into a project
that was more meaningful than outside
of the commercial world that we'd been in for so long.
- Wow, that's excellent.
Well, all this talk about Dr. Ray Peat,
I think we need to ask Dr. Ray Peat
what your professional and academic background is
if there's listeners tonight that have not heard our show
in previous months.
- I was studying art and literature as an undergraduate
and did my master's thesis mostly on William Blake.
And all that time, I was interested in life in general
and saw biology as a way to get some concrete facts
that would confirm alternative views
because I saw in the humanities dogma
and political opinions influencing
what was teachable in the universities.
And I thought that real science might have relevance
to the humanities.
And as soon as I enrolled at the University of Oregon
to work on a PhD in biology,
after taking a few years out in between my master's,
I quickly realized that biology was exactly
as unscientific as linguistics, philosophy,
literature, and so on.
Ideology was right at the center of nerve biology.
And so I wrote to Gilbert Ling,
and I told him what my professors were teaching,
that he and others had shown to be profoundly wrong
20 years previously.
And he answered, said,
"You just don't understand what science is.
"Science is all about prestige and money."
- And so what year was that that you wrote to Gilbert?
- 1968, I think, in the fall when I started the university.
And just after a few more months
working with the nerve biology brain people,
I found that the reproductive biologist
was actually a scientist who,
when I observed things that were counter to the dogma,
he said, "Is it repeatable?
"Then go ahead."
- Great, so he had an open mind to science.
- Yeah, and the nerve biologist said
he wouldn't even look at the experiments that I was doing.
All of my experiments showed something
contrary to the nerve dogma.
And my professor would just turn instantly
so he didn't have to see what the instruments were showing.
- Excellent, that is the thrust of,
and I definitely haven't spoken to you, Dr. Peat,
since early on in the week
before we even invited Brad and Jeremy to the show,
but that's exactly the thrust of where tonight's show's going.
So the scientists that we mentioned earlier,
well, sorry, we haven't mentioned the scientists yet,
but I was saying earlier that you have,
in the course of the last several years,
whenever we do radio shows,
we will always throw out these eminent scientists' names
and we look at them like Gerald Pollack and May Wan Ho
and Gilbert Ling, et cetera.
And Jeremy and Brad took it upon themselves
to go take a list of these people
and go see if they could track them down and film them.
- I know, I wanna know how that came about
when Jeremy and Brad were talking to you, Ray.
- Well, one minute, I just wanted to say
at this point in time in post-production,
sorry, pre-production, the editing stage,
they have produced a fantastic couple of minutes movie clip
showing all the different people that they've interviewed.
And these people are all on the cutting edge.
They're all PhD, they're professors,
they're research scientists.
They're all very respectable people
who've produced works in published journals, et cetera.
And they are directly refuting some long-held tenets
and dogma of science that most people
just get faced with by their doctors
because the doctors are not reading research.
So the whole thrust of tonight's show
was not only to bring out these scientists
and their various different aspects
of what they're looking at in science,
but to let people know that they can find out more
about this movie that's being created
by going to www.perceivethinkact.
So perceivethinkact is the main link.
- Dot com. - Dot com, of course.
Or you can just put that perceivethinkact
in a Google search term, Google search bar.
It'll take you straight to their website
and you'll be able to see the work that they're doing.
So yeah, the main thing is I wanted to go through
the different scientists that Dr. Peat's mentioned in past
that Jeremy and Brad went to see on different continents
and get a feeling for the kind of science
that they've put together in I don't know how many hours.
How many hours do you think you took altogether
and how many hours do you think the DVD will be?
- Oh, well, in terms of raw footage so far,
we've shot hundreds of hours.
- Yeah, 200 hours.
- Yeah, the final project will be a feature film length,
but perhaps we're gonna explore maybe shorter series
that could cover more ground as well.
- In depth, okay, cool.
- Okay, so Dr. Peat, how did you come up with the idea
for Brad and Jeremy or Brad and Jeremy,
how did you come up with it
to interview these other scientists?
- Well, it was the original conversation we had
with Dr. Peat talking about this idea.
And he mentioned or had asked had we thought
about talking to Harold Hillman
and we had heard of Harold Hillman,
but hadn't really looked into him.
And he mentioned a couple other names,
Miao Wan Ho, and we started diving deeper into their work
and realizing there's a much larger story to tell here.
And that really sparked this quest
to then sort of check off all of the people
who's what seem like disparate theories,
Ray has connected the dots and woven together
into what we think is a fairly cohesive new model
for the workings of life.
- That's why I keep telling Dr. Peat,
we need to write a book that's called the Peat Manual
instead of the Merck Manual, you know, it's a Peat Manual.
- Who knows?
Okay, so let's start with Dr. Miao Wan Ho,
just because you have firsthand knowledge of her
and you've met her and maybe you can just give
an outline of Miao Wan Ho's background,
her philosophy and you know, her character.
- She's covered a lot of different topics.
I think probably what she's known for being
most controversial on is GMOs,
but mainly what we talked to her about
is her study of basically quantum biology
and the crystalline structure of organisms.
And she did a number of experiments
using a type of microscope that's,
I think generally used in geology.
And it's basically uses polarized light
and allows you to look at generally like
the structure of crystals and rocks.
But she found that the small organisms
had the same sort of crystalline structure
in a liquid form.
And I think that was kind of an inspiring
paradigm shifting thought to her.
- Okay.
- And it fits in with things like, you know,
structured water and thinking about the organism
in a way that it's in the mechanistic views of science
and various sorts of chemical biology
is totally counter to that type of thinking.
- Okay.
- So she wrote the book "Rainbow and the Worm,"
which is kind of all about that.
- "Rainbow in the?"
- I think it's called "The Rainbow and the Worm."
- "And the Worm."
- "And the Worm," okay, got it.
Okay.
- And that also, those findings to her
that connected with criticisms against neo-Darwinism
as well, if the organism is not fundamentally
so mechanistic and much more fluidic and subtle,
then it would support, lay support to the theories
more in line with Sidney Fox and others.
- Okay.
Well, Dr. Peat, given that you are on the show,
let's just quickly ask you of a rundown for Maywan,
if you like, just because you've always,
you're the one that's been mentioning her
in the first instance.
What springs to your mind?
- That image of the worm really is one
of the most important things that people
should start thinking about.
The quantum biology, I think Albert George,
actually was the one that motivated people
to start going in the direction of electronic biology
and a coherent view of the cell.
Maywan Ho is to a great degree an extension
of some of Albert George's ideas.
- Okay.
All right, well, moving on to Harold Hillman,
and I think he's the next person.
Yeah, first of all, when did you first interview Maywan Ho?
What data are we looking at now?
- Well, we actually started with Harold Hillman.
- Oh, you did, I'm sorry.
- Yes, but only a few days before Maywan Ho,
and it was around the 15th of April of last year.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
- So you went to England.
- Yes, we went.
- It was, yeah, planning our first trip,
we wanted to knock several interviews out at once,
and there were several people in England.
So there was Harold Hillman and Maywan Ho was like,
Harold was our first interview,
and then two days later, we went to see Maywan.
- So tell me a little bit about Harold Hillman
and his background and what he was like
and what he's contributed to the documentary.
- Well, the crux of his work is his criticisms
of traditional microscopy as well as electron,
the use of the electron microscope,
in that most of the structures we see
when we're looking through them are artifacts,
and this is because of the processing
that what was once living material has to go through,
and it would make your head spin hearing him list
all of the things that, the dehydration, dying, smashing,
and what you're left with is something
that bears almost no resemblance to an actual living cell,
so then how can you learn about the living cell
when what you're looking at is basically artifacts?
- And is he saying that this is still happening
in mainstream biology, this is still the norm?
- Oh, yeah. - Yes, yeah, yes.
- He made a film, sorry, on YouTube,
there's old films of his that you can watch,
and it's still, it's pretty pertinent today.
It's really simple, which is what I think
makes his criticisms so inflammatory,
is he just shows a side-by-side
of a cell being prepared for a microscope slide,
and you've got the living cell on one side
looking like a transparent blob,
and then after it goes through all of the steps
of being washed in alcohol and various other compounds,
it's like about a third the size
and all squashed and squiggly-looking.
- Does he do anything with live blood microscopy?
- Not himself personally, but he did,
we asked him about the techniques currently in use
that do let you look at, or at least more accurate
than light microscopy, or the electron microscope.
And going back to what Dr. Peat had experienced
when he was a student, his professor
not even wanting to look at what he was doing,
similar with Dr. Hillman, his work was so difficult
to criticize that people would just leave the room
when he would come in.
At scientific conferences, they would literally
turn around and run away because they just didn't want
to hear him speak.
- They'd rather keep their paycheck coming in
than actually look at what science might be showing them.
- Unfortunately in the medical world
and/or the scientific world, the ego I think
gets in the way so much that people don't even see
the truth when it's right in front of them.
But yeah, at the same time, there are people
that have very alternative ways of looking at things
like Dr. Peat and the people that you've seen,
so this again is a part point of your documentary
is to illustrate, I think from that first instance
you talked about Harold being the first person
you saw, that's pretty interesting
because he's the person who you're saying
is refuting a lot of what microscopy is revealing.
- Yeah, exactly. - Where it all stems from.
Yeah, rotten foundations basically.
- Okay.
- There was a famous Swedish electron microscopy expert
named Fridtjof Shostran who did a lot of studies
or did a lot of very clear explanation
using different fixatives showing how profound
the artifacts are in standard preparations
and he was a mainstream researcher
but the mainstream simply overlooked
his work on the artifacts.
- Okay, well let's move on to Dr. Gerald Pollack.
A lot of people that are listening to the show
may well have mentioned, sorry, may well have heard
his name mentioned in the past and may well know him
from his structured water.
He's kind of water, he's called the water wizard
I think they call him.
- Yeah.
- Go ahead, either one of you want to start
and tell us a little bit about Gerald Pollack
and what you gained from his interview.
- Well yeah, he's really known probably more widely
than anyone else that we've interviewed so far
as far as having, he's got mainstream talks.
He's done a TED talk and his focus today
is really on what they generally call structured water,
another phase that, you know, it's one of those topics
I think he's really unpopular in his department
because he has chosen to study something
that seems like obviously it's already been figured out.
But they do some fairly simple experiments
to show that there are more unusual
electrically based forms of water
and they create, they call it easy water,
the exclusion zone when you get the water
building up on a surface and it purifies itself,
basically everything becomes excluded from it.
And that seems to be the exact kind of water,
how water's structured inside cells.
So it has all sorts of implications
for further understanding biology.
- He found that one of the substances
that seems to create easy water or structured water
with the most affinity is aspirin.
- Interesting.
- Which we found, yeah, very interesting
in that it has such broad effects in the body
and if it's connected to that attribute of it.
- Yeah, the stabilizing effect of water.
- Okay, Dr. Peat, I know you've always been a proponent
of aspirin for quite a wide range
of different conditions, inflammatory generally,
but do you have anything to say on Gerald Pollack?
- Oh, everything he's been doing in recent years
is just extremely interesting.
He has developed some theories on how light energy,
infrared is used in building structure in water
and there's a young German named Andrei Sommer,
S-O-M-M-E-R, who is working with red light
structuring water.
Very similar and very concrete demonstration
of what on a bigger scale,
Patterson, Gerald is working on.
- So is that some of the reason why red light
is so anti-inflammatory, because of its effects
on the water of the cell?
- Yeah, I think that's part of it.
- Well, it's a good time of year
to get your red light, folks.
It's nice and sunny here in California.
- It was also just really heartening to see Gerald's lab.
You know, it's easy to feel gloomy
when pondering all the ills
in our medical and scientific establishments,
but Gerald's lab is full of young and excited,
inspired scientists that are working
on all sorts of interesting endeavors
that it made us hopeful for the next generation.
- Yeah, one of his students,
who I think is sort of the top guy under him now,
originally did a project trying to disprove him.
And I think he spent a year,
and then he proved to himself, basically,
that Gerald was doing good science and joined his side.
- Excellent.
Okay, so from the first three that we've mentioned,
then, May Wan Ho, Harold Hillman, and Gerald Pollack,
they're all doctors, but didn't say that to begin with.
So starting with May Wan Ho,
then looking at polarized light and quantum biology,
criticizing the neo-Darwinism that's kind of so prevalent
in the scientific community.
And then Harold Hillman, the microscopist,
looking at microscopy as,
or what's being done in microscopy as being poor science
and actually very damaging, if you like,
to the subject that's being visualized,
and how that can impact various experiments.
And then also, then, Gerald Pollack and structured water.
So I know we've got several other scientists
that I'd like you to cover that you've been with,
but first of all, just let me let people know
who are listening.
This is "Ask Your Obdoctoran," K.M.E.D. Garbleville, 91.1 FM,
and we're interviewing Jeremy and Brad,
and let me just get this right.
It is Jeremy Stewart and Brad Abrahams.
- Yes. - And Dr. Peat is with us,
although I thought Dr. Peat actually
was gonna have the evening off.
(laughing)
- Well, we're glad that he's here.
- Yeah, we're very glad too, Dr. Peat.
So we definitely appreciate that.
But these two gentlemen are documentary filmmakers,
and they have done the seemingly impossible
and interviewed eight of these scientists
that Dr. Peat has been talking about for many years now
when he brings out his various different anecdotes,
as he always does,
and have producing a fantastic documentary film,
kind of unifying all of the theories,
I think in some ways, that Dr. Peat is able to understand
that all these people working in their individual fields
are contributing all the same sort of unifying knowledge
to an approach and a framework to approaching disease
that is so radical, and hopefully it's about time
for mainstream science to wake up
and some people to see what's going on.
We've always said, you know,
for those who have ears, listen and let them hear.
So they can be reached at www.perceivethinkact.com.
So go ahead and check them out on the web
and see the work they're doing.
It's really quite special.
So let's move on then, Brad and Jeremy,
to Dr. Gilbert Ling.
And tell us a little bit about this fellow.
And I think actually, in some ways,
this next couple of people seem to be getting on
in their years.
They've been doing it for a long time.
So let's talk about Gilbert Ling.
- Well, Gilbert, I think now is 96, I believe.
And when we saw him, he was in shockingly good health,
living alone in a mansion,
basically running up and down the stairs,
doing everything for himself.
The only issue really being his hearing.
But recently he had a health complication
and is now not able to live on his own, unfortunately.
Yeah, but he seems to be getting back to his old self,
which is good to hear.
But it's really difficult to sum up
Gilbert's past and achievements,
but he's most known for disproving
the sodium pump hypothesis,
which is at the root of all basically thought on--
- Physiology.
- Physiology and the role of the cell membrane
in that sodium pump hypothesis.
And his hypothesis,
called the association induction hypothesis,
it basically details a totally different,
totally unconventional model of how the cell works.
- And it's based only on physics and chemistry.
- Right, actual science.
Yeah, that's what's so forward thinking about it.
- It's scientific and reproducible,
you're saying, it's something that--
- Yeah, and he's done possibly thousands of experiments
showing the work and proving it
that have all but been ignored.
And they won't even, if he submits a paper to,
even on an unrelated subject to any journal,
they reject it just saying--
- Immediately.
- Yeah, they don't even read it.
They just send him a rejection notice because of his name.
- Wow, now Dr. Peat, I know that
when we've spoken to you in the past,
and I, again, unfortunately went through an education
where it was very science-based
and it was the same kind of erroneous science.
- Not really science-based, it pretended to be science-based,
but really it was just medical dogma.
- We still had sodium pumps and potassium pumps
and all that kind of stuff moving,
allowing things to be transported across the cell.
And I know, Dr. Peat, that you're very anti
the membrane pump idea,
saying that actually cells are very fluid and elastic
and they flow and they move and they make space
between the cells for things to enter and exit.
And actually this is a much better and holistic approach
to the physiology of the cell.
- Yeah, wasn't the cell membrane theory
just brought about by big pharmas
so they could try to explain how their drugs are working?
- Well, sort of, I think it really relates to neo-Darwinism
and the genetic idea that they want to get away
from the idea that life is somehow stable.
And so it's more like a machine which has to run
to keep itself in a given state.
But Gilbert Ling showed that even if you turn off
the energy supply, the cell is stable for many hours.
The sodium keeps going in and going out,
but the cell retains the life-like imbalance
between sodium and potassium.
And all of the life-like properties don't require energy.
They simply require the structure of the water
and the whole living system.
And there are just apparently in the infinite number of ways
of looking at that that confirm Gilbert Ling's view,
but the absurd, the need to see things
in this mechanical way makes people overlook the facts
and believe absurd things.
- In an electron microscope course that I took,
I decided to try different fixatives.
I had read Sjostrand's, some of his publications,
and simply by using a different fixative,
my cells were nothing but membranes,
membranes all the way through.
(laughing)
And so I looked at the origin of how they got
the first membrane, and in an old medical book,
19th century ideas, I saw that doctors treated ulcers
and burns with osmic acid, osmic tetroxide,
to create what they called the false membrane.
And that was a standard medical term.
So it was in the consciousness of the people
who were working on cells.
And the first preparations for electron microscopy
of cells showed no membranes at all,
but they believed that there had to be membranes.
And apparently someone recalled that old medical concept
of creating a false membrane to seal up a wound,
and they applied the osmic acid to living cells
and created, in fact, a membrane,
which was about 10 times thicker
than they eventually decided they needed.
And so they refined the technique.
Now they have approximately the right thickness of membrane.
(laughing)
- And just how they've never been able to find
one of their hundreds of pumps that they've invented.
- And any time there's a new thing
that goes in and out of the cell,
they have to create a new pump,
add a new pump to the list?
- If you wash all of the ions out of hair
and dip hair in the serum,
it picks up the proper ions and excludes sodium.
So apparently dead hair has all of the necessary pumps.
The working pumps.
(laughing)
- Okay, well let's move on.
Go ahead, go on.
- I was gonna say one more thing about Gilbert Lang
that I think he's not more well-known
because he's got an impressive academic career.
He's really intelligent,
and he speaks at such a high level
that it's pretty difficult to follow along
sometimes what he's saying,
unless you have degrees in biochemistry.
And so reading his books is really challenging,
especially for a layman.
Even for a scientist.
- Yeah.
- Well, that's why we appreciate Dr. Ray Peat so much.
- Exactly.
- Exactly, yeah.
- Because you're able to put all these pieces together
and make a coherent picture that we can understand.
- So let's go on to, let's see here, Dr. Michael Persinger.
- He was one that was not initially on our list,
but someone that Brad and I both had mutual interest in
prior to ever, I think, even hearing about Ray.
But we were really surprised at how well he entered up
fitting in in the interview phase.
And I guess he is listed as studying parapsychology.
But basically he's done a huge amount of work
on the effects of fields on life, on consciousness.
And he's most well-known for what's now
a very old experiment.
And if you just search for the God Helmet on YouTube,
you'll see videos on that experiment showing
electromagnetic stimulation of the right hemisphere
inducing a sensed presence in quite a few people.
- Okay, as if they perceive something,
they perceive a person or...
- Yeah, and it's like a closed eye experience
in a sealed room wearing a scooter helmet.
And for, you know, it's an experience that's induced
in people who seem to be sensitive to it
and then totally filtered by their cultural eye.
Like if someone was highly religious,
they might have some kind of God experience.
- Okay.
- And so that, well, that's kind of, I think,
what most people know him from.
But he's done decades of other more advanced work since then.
But he has lots to say about operating in the system,
doing controversial study and proposing radical ideas
and doing good science and, you know, showing the effects.
Basically, I think it's really controversial
to do anything with fields.
- Okay.
- And he's done a lot of work showing how sensitive life
is to electromagnetic fields.
- How many, I just have to ask a question here at this point.
How many of these people that you've interviewed
up to this person, Dr. Michael Pettinger, are marginalized?
- All of them.
- All of them, really?
- Yeah, I'd say the one who's least marginalized
is Gerald Pollack, but even in his case, he's often--
- He's treading a fine line, huh?
- At risk of his, I mean, he's had his funding
taken away from him and is always at risk of that.
And as well as constant attacks from other professors
that feel threatened.
Michael Pettinger has seemed to have carved out a niche
for himself in the bitter north of Canada
at a small university.
And I think that that allows him to do what he wants to do
and have the facilities that he needs to do it.
- He doesn't have the same introspection, huh?
(laughing)
Okay.
- Maybe it's because he's in Canada.
- Well, let's move on to the next person on the list.
Probably one of my, I'm probably more,
I'm as drawn to this person as I am to Dr. Harold Hillman,
just because Dr. Harold Hillman's British,
but Dr. Fred Kummerow, he's 100 years old now, isn't he?
And he looks so good for his age, folks.
If people that are listening here, Dr. Fred Kummerow,
K-U-M-M-E-R-O-W, he's 100 years old.
And I'm sure Dr. Peat will have something to say about him
as well as both of you, Brad and Jeremy,
but he was very into demonizing polyunsaturates
a long time ago, and his skin looks so good.
You've met him in person, what's he like?
- Yes, it's even, he looks even better than you'd imagine.
He has no age spots or the lipoflex skin anywhere.
And his hair, while gray, he has a full head of hair.
It's nice and soft, nice full set of teeth.
- Do you touch his hair?
- No, but it's very soft.
And he basically had, for his adult life,
avoided any added polyunsaturated fats in his diet.
That I think is the--
- Tell us all about him.
- Well, he's most recently known for success
in his 60-year-long tireless crusade against trans fats,
which is something that everyone sort of knows now
that is bad for their health.
But what is not reported is he basically says
very similar things about the polyunsaturated fats.
And when we told him, since he's quite old
and he's not really connected into the modern health world,
when we told him that fish oil is sold as supplements
and people drink flax oil,
he literally physically recoiled,
knowing the harm that it can do to health.
And it has caused some people to die early, die young.
And yeah, it actually horrified him
that it's a billion-dollar industry,
that all it's doing is harming your health.
- Yeah, that's pretty sad, isn't it?
Go ahead, is there anything else you want to say
about Dr. Fred Kimbrough, having met him?
And then maybe I'll ask Dr. Peat
what he has to think about him.
- No, he's just, it's inspiring to see,
he's getting older and recently in a wheelchair
because of a swimming-related accident at 97.
So, age is starting to take its toll at 100 for him,
but he's still doing active research at the lab
and working on some novel compounds
related to Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases
that have to do with oxidization
of the polyunsaturated fat.
- I just want to let our listeners know
that if you visit this website, www.perceivedthinkact,
you can see a short clip, a short video clip
of all of these doctors we're talking about this evening.
I don't know if that's been mentioned, but.
- Okay, and just for some context on the website.
- Yeah, please do, go ahead.
- Perceivedthinkact.com is our,
it's just like the journal of our,
it's our journey of making the film.
So it's the production journal,
and in chronological order,
it has a post for each of our shoots
with every subject we've had,
and pictures and videos from the shoots.
- And I think also important to note
that we're not finished shooting.
We've only really shot about 30 to 40% of the material.
- Really?
- Yeah, there's a lot of people
that we still want to interview.
- How are you gonna get them all
into a one and a half hour DVD?
(laughing)
It's gonna be a compendium, isn't it?
- The magic of good editing.
- Yeah, editing.
- Yeah, I'm not too sure how you're gonna cut enough out
to get it all into a small movie
without cutting out some very good information.
But anyway, I'll leave that to you guys.
You guys are the film pros, so I'll leave that to you.
But let's talk a little bit more then.
Got a couple more subjects, and then we can...
Actually, yes, I wanted to ask Dr. Peat.
Dr. Peat, I don't want you just to be on the sidelines.
I know you're probably fairly happy,
but hopefully not too tired.
What do you have to say about Dr. Michael Persinger
from your experience and/or your work?
Where has he led you, if anywhere, in his journey?
- Well, my interest in fields went way back.
My brother was a radio ham
and had a lot of electronic equipment
that I, from I guess the age of nine or so,
had the opportunity to play with.
And so the electrical properties
of all of my acquaintances,
seeing how aging affected the conductivity and so on,
kept me constantly aware
of the electrical magnetic properties of organisms.
And in 1968, I went to Russia largely
to talk to a man working in what he called
magnetobiology, as opposed to biomagnetics.
He concentrated on the effects of fields on organisms
rather than the fields produced by the organisms.
And one of my very first experiments at the university
after I got back was with a strong magnet
that my brother made for me,
and looking at its effect on a crab nerve.
And I could see that just the presence
of a strong magnetic field apparently affected,
I interpreted it as affecting the structure of the water.
The latent period, there was a delay between stimulation
and reaction in the presence of a magnetic field.
And I also paid attention to the fields
that I produced, electrical fields that would,
some of the things like a millivolt meter,
I couldn't operate because my field would,
from about a foot away, they would go off scale.
So my lab partner had to handle the knobs on those things.
- So all very interesting, actual practical experimentation
showing that fields do not just subtly,
but grossly affect nerve impulses
and/or electric activity in the body.
And that's been a lot of the basis for your outcry,
if you like, against radiation and X-rays
and all the other visualization techniques
that are used in medicine as being very harmful.
- Yeah, very subtle fields have very big effects
on organisms.
- Okay, what about, I don't want to take too long
with that one, but how about Dr. Fred Kummerow
and his background in trans fat,
trying to keep, trying to ban trans fats?
- The trans fats normally occur in butter
as an intermediate stage.
And the conjugated linoleic acid is the next step
in shifting the unsaturation.
And the very beneficial effects
of conjugated linoleic acid, I think,
are because they block some of the toxic effects
of the normal linoleic acid
and other polyunsaturated fats.
So even though cow's milk and butter
contain some trans fats,
they also contain the beneficial next step,
the conjugated form of the unsaturated fats.
- Yeah, and Dr. Kummerow's criticism is more
about the artificially created trans fats
rather than the naturally grown in dairy and other forms.
- He's got nothing against butter.
- Yeah, he likes butter.
- Yeah, it's all about the wholesale production
then of trans fats and pumping those into the food chain.
- Yes.
- Okay, well, I see that we've got 10 minutes left here
and time goes so quickly, unfortunately,
but just want to let people that are listening know
this is Ask Your Herb Doctor, KMUD 91.1 FM.
We've interviewed Dr. A.M. and Peat, thankfully,
for quite a while and he's spoken on many different subjects
and he's mentioned many different eminent scientists
in that time and that, fortunately, the step has been made
where these two gentlemen filmmakers
that we're interviewing now have actually gone
and interviewed these eight scientists
and they're actually talking about interviewing
quite a few more, but they are in the process
of producing a documentary and they do have,
excuse me, a very good clip, a taste of things to come.
If only people will go there and see what's going on.
Their website is www.perceivethinkact.com.
- And the name of the documentary that's in progress
is On the Back of a Tiger.
- Okay, so let's just go on to Danny Roddy
and his background.
He's probably the only non-doctor so far, isn't he?
- So far, yeah.
There's sort of two sides to the film
and we've focused so far on the scientists,
but the other piece is what we've been calling
the health seekers, people who have used this information
to empower themselves and take their health
into their own hands.
And he's someone who's had his own health journey
and now he's, I guess you'd call him a health blogger.
His main focus is on hair loss specifically,
but he's, I think, probably read almost anything
that is available that Ray has written ever.
- Okay.
- And he's got no formal academic background,
but he's learned an incredible amount on his own.
And I think really had a huge journey
learning to understand his own metabolism and stress.
- And he's applied this to himself
and this has been something kind of groundbreaking.
I think it's Stoltz moment where he's, wow.
- Exactly.
Yeah, he's been on, I think, the roller coaster
that a lot of us can relate to
with trying to solve your own health problems
and thankfully has come out on top with a,
and now able to connect with people.
I think that's why he connects so well with people
is he's been where a lot of people are now
and has the gift of taking those very complex
scientific theories and translating them
so anyone can understand them.
- Yeah, good.
I mean, that's always been the challenge, isn't it?
Science is sometimes so chewy.
It's a lot to get your teeth into sometimes
and sometimes the language is almost a different language
and therefore it needs a translation to put it
into a context of everyday language
so people can truly understand it.
I think that's what we try and do with Dr. Peake
is sometimes he's very scientific sometimes
and other times, you know,
doesn't sound quite so difficult to understand.
- Well, it depends who he's talking to.
Sometimes when it was just you and Dr. Peake
on the radio show, you guys got a little carried away
in science 'cause you were talking to each other.
- Anyway, anyway.
- Pardon my interference there.
- Okay, so you actually went and interviewed Dr. Peake.
Dr. Peake, he's probably the unwitting star of the show,
but you interviewed Dr. Peake here
and obviously you got to share with him
and he got to share with you
and what I can gather is that, again,
I think he's kind of unifying the theories
of all these different scientists
and applying it to health and the perspective of health
and kind of meeting the challenges
of the way health and medicine is working or not working
in this day and age with people
and how dogma is just so entrenched
as is the ego, I think, in the science community
that it fails to see sometimes the obvious
and doesn't allow that ego to fall to one side
to let the facts come through
and then support them by being a little bit out
on the edge of the field, as it were.
So you interviewed Dr. Peake
and unfortunately I know we've only got five minutes left,
but you can talk briefly about Dr. Peake,
but let us have a little bit of time
just to remind people where they can find out more about you
because you've got a great film that you put in together.
So Dr. Peake, very briefly,
you got a couple of minutes, I think.
(laughs)
- So, well, one of the, you know,
the thing about the working scientists
and people who've spent their life in science
is they focus on a little tiny area
and they're not usually fully aware of the larger context
that they may be helping to expand.
And so I think Ray's work,
it kind of puts all of these people into a paradigm
that all makes sense together into a much more holistic view.
- And really, what is the worth
of all of this scientific inquiry
if you can't apply it practically
to people's health and nutrition?
And I think that's where nearly everyone we've interviewed
somewhat misses the mark
in that they don't think about it that way.
They don't think, well, how does this apply to me?
- They're looking down the microscope.
- Exactly. - Yes, yeah.
And that's where one of the many realms
where Dr. Peat's work resonates with us
and so many other people.
- And I also think that Dr. Peat helps people
take their health into their own hands
and he encourages them and gets them to start looking
at what do you feel like after you eat that food
or what do you feel like after you do that?
And that is so important
because we are the ones that know ourselves the best
and a doctor teaching a patient to do that
is very, very contrary
to the authoritarian medical system we have today.
- And it's funny, it's kind of surreal
being on your show tonight
because your show, it's one of the few resources
to hear Dr. Peat talk on so many different subjects
and Brad and I both have spent so much time
listening to your recorded shows as research for the film.
So thanks. - Yeah, interesting.
I didn't even-- - Thanks for your interest.
- Yeah, we're finally on the other side.
- I didn't even know this until about three days ago, folks.
But anyway, I'd heard about Brad and Jeremy,
oh, in early, I think late 2013
and they said what they were gonna do
and I was like, okay, great, sounds like a great idea.
And we've been back and forth with a few emails
but we never got to actually meet or talk
and then the next thing I was, they've done it.
(laughing)
So I take my hat off to you
and I know that you probably really enjoyed it
and I think you're gonna certainly exceed
most people's expectations
and I really wish both of you the very best in your work.
- Thanks so much.
- And also in getting the funding
that is gonna be necessary here to put this together.
- Yeah, the first, the very first post
if you go to our site, perceivethinkac.com
has a link to the Kickstarter campaign
where you can donate or share around
with friends and family.
- I know it's doing pretty good, so that's a good sign.
- And lastly, Dr. Peat, can you comment on the film
that Jeremy and Brad are producing here?
- In about a minute.
- Well, the bits that I've seen,
it's very much fun to watch those people
I had seen, I spoke briefly to Gilbert Ling in 1971,
but it's good to see the newer stuff
about him and the others.
- Well, if it wasn't for people like you, Dr. Peat,
and all the people that Jeremy and Brad
have actually gone and seen and videoed
and gotten real life footage of,
it wouldn't be able to reach people
and people wouldn't get to know about such alternatives.
So in keeping alternatives alive,
I thank all of the three of you for being here
and you, Dr. Peat, I didn't even know
you were gonna be on the air, but thanks so much.
(laughs)
- Thank you for all your time.
- Okay, so-- - Yes, thanks.
Thank you, everyone.
- You're very welcome. - Appreciate it.
- Okay, so until the third Friday of next month,
my name's Andrew Murray.
- My name's Sarah Johanneson Murray.
- And we can be reached 1-888-WBM-ERB
Monday through Friday or any time.
In fact, people just want to contact us
for whatever it is.
So our website also is www.westernbotanicalmedicine.com
and don't forget, Perceive, Think, Act.
So that's the best way you wanna go,
www.perceivethinkact.
It's really very interesting.
You should see it.
- And Dr. Raymond Peat's website is www.raymondPeat.com.